[IAM-4740] add docs for the new SSO (#1716)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/basics/sso/logging-in-via-sso.md

---
id: logging-in-via-sso
title: Logging In via SSO
sidebar_label: Logging In via SSO
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<p><span className="sauceDBlue">Enterprise Plans only</span></p>

When using SAML SSO, we have two methods for starting Single Sign-On (SSO): [SP-initiated](#service-provider-sp-initiated-sso) or [IdP-initiated](#identity-provider-idp-initiated-sso).

## Service Provider (SP) initiated SSO

1. Go to [the Sauce Labs login page](https://accounts.saucelabs.com).

> 2. Click the button **`SSO`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **SSO**.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/setup-sso-sso-btn.png')} alt="SSO Login Button" width="500" />

> 3. Input your company email address and click **`Log in`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter your email address and click **Log in**.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/login-sso-input-email.png')} alt="Input SSO Email" width="500" />

> 4. You will be redirected to your identity provider in order to authenticate with your company credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. You will be redirected to your identity provider to authenticate with your company credentials.
```

> 5. If you are already authenticated at your identity provider, you will be redirected to Sauce Labs dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If you are already authenticated at your identity provider, you will be redirected to the Sauce Labs dashboard.
```

:::tip

> If new users are not able to log in via SP-initiated flow, most probably your company email domains were not assigned to your organization. Check [here](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso#email-domains) how to do that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If new users are not able to log in via the SP-initiated flow, make sure that  your [company email domains were assigned to your organization](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso#email-domains).
```

:::

### Deep linking

Copying and pasting links is the quickest way to share pages.

> If you paste a link to for example a test results page at Sauce Labs and you are not authenticated. You will be redirected to the Sauce Labs login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you paste a link to, for example,  a test results page at Sauce Labs and you are not authenticated. You will be redirected to the Sauce Labs login page.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/login-sso-login-page.png')} alt="Login Page" width="500" />

2. Follow the steps from [the SP-initiated flow](#service-provider-sp-initiated-sso):

>    - Click the button **`SSO`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click **SSO**.
```

>    - Input your company email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Enter your company email address.
```

>    - Click the button **`Log in`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click **Log in**.
```

3. And you will be redirected to the requested page.

## Identity Provider (IdP) initiated SSO

1. Log into your identity provider dashboard, for example Okta.

> 2. Click on **`Sauce Labs`** tile in your applications catalogue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Sauce Labs** tile in your applications catalog.
```
